
PISI Coding Standards
=====================

Written by Eray Ozkural 2006
Updated Eray Ozkural 2017

Guidelines
----------

0. Before reading any further please observe PEP 8: Style Guide for
   Python Code http://www.python.org/peps/pep-0008.html

   In particular this means no lameCaps

1. When using dirnames, don't expect the dir to end with a trailing
   slash, and please use the dirnames in pisiconfig. Use
   util.join_path instead of os.path.join

2. Python indentation is usually 4 spaces.

3. Follow python philosophy of 'batteries included'

4. Use exceptions, don't return error codes

5. Don't make the PISI code have runtime dependencies on a particular
   distribution (as much as possible).

6. Don't assume narrow use cases. Allow for a mediocre amount of
   generalization in your code, for pieces that will be required later.

7. If you are changing something, check if that change breaks anything
   and fix breakage. For instance a name. Running the tests is not
   always enough!

8. A good design ensures separation of concerns. Every module has a
   specific documented responsibility. Don't make the horse clean your
   windows.

 9. To ensure readability avoid nesting python constructs more than 3
   levels deep. Python is a good language (unlike C), so you can
   define inner functions in a convenient way, use such decomposition
   techniques to break down your code into manageable chunks. The
   worst code you can write is one huge procedure that goes on for
   1000 (or more) lines.

10. Use a particular abstraction like a class or function only if it
   makes sense. Don't just define things because they can be
   defined. Define only things that will/may be used.

11. If you are doing an expensive task like searching through 10000
   text chunks, please use an efficient data structure and
   algorithm. We are not MS engineers who know no data structure
   beyond doubly linked lists and no algorithm beyond quicksort.

12. Resist the temptation to develop kludges and workarounds in
   response to pressure. Take your time to solve the problems by the
   book. The payoff comes later.

13. Same thing goes for premature optimizations. Knuth and Dijkstra
   are watching over your shoulder. :)

Branches and SVN
----------------

There are two branches of pisi, one is called pisi-devel and new
features that are large enough to cause instability go into that
branch. The trunk version is supposed to be stable at all times. This
means that you *must* run unit tests and other test scripts after
committing any change that cannot be tested in isolation. Run the unit
tests periodically to catch unseen bugs. A release from the stable
branch *must not* break any tests whatsoever, so extensive use of the
test suite must precede any release.


Unit testing
------------

Unit tests are located in unittests directory. Running the tests is
trivial. But you must synchronize your code and data with the test
code, which can be a tedious work if you lose discipline.

Sample data files are located in the same directory with test modules.

For running the entire test suite, use the following command:

$ ./tests/run.py

The following command will run tests in specfiletests and archivetests
in unittests dir:

$ ./tests/run.py specfile archive

Do not depend on the output of unittests. Instead of producing an
output message/data in your tests, check the data internally. By
definition, unittest should just report succeeding and failing cases.

If you didn't, take a look at the links below for having an idea of
unit testing.  http://www.extremeprogramming.org/rules/unittests.html
http://www.extremeprogramming.org/rules/unittests2.html


Other tests
-----------

There are a couple of nice test scripts for testing the basic
capabilities of the command line interface such as building and
upgrading. Unlike unit tests, you have to take a look at the output to
understand that the scripts are doing well :)

Misc. Suggestions
-----------------

1. Demeter's Law

In OO programming, try to invoke Demeter's law.  One of the "rules"
there is not directly accessing any objects that are further than, 2/3
refs, away. So the following code is OK.
destroy_system(a.system().name()) but the following isn't as robust
destroy_system(object_store.root().a.system.name()) As you can tell,
this introduces too many implementation dependencies. The rule of
thumb is that, in these cases this statement must have been
elsewhere.... It may be a good idea to not count the object scope in
this case, so in Python self.a means only one level of reference, not
two.

One quibble with this: it may be preferable not to insist on this
where it would be inefficient. So if everything is neatly packed into
one object contained in another object, why replicate everything in
the upper level? If the semantics prevents dependency changes, then
chains of 3 or even 4 could be acceptable.

OTOH, in Python and C++, it's not always good to implement
accessor/modifier pairs for every property of an object.  It would be
much simpler if you are not doing any special processing on the
property (e.g. if what the type system does is sufficient).

The main rule of thumb in Demeter's Law is avoiding putting more than,
say, 10 methods in a class. That works really well in practice,
forcing refactoring every now and then.

2. If you are interested in "Playstation 2 Linux Games Programming" or
"How to extend C programs with Guile", please do not exercise your
valuable skills in this project. Only, half joking. :P

3. Please do not suggest replacements of used libraries and auxiliary
software and formats unless you have a very good rationale for it.

4. Please do not remove existing features without a very good reason.

5. Please try to maintain maximum backwards compatibility, though some
minor changes might be made for major revisions.

6. Best coding practices result from writing software that has a
clearly stated purpose, pre-conditions, and post-conditions. PISI is
written in a library-like manner, for this very reason, the parts of
it that are modular are generally useful, like the XML metaclass
autoxml, the persistency backend that uses Berkeley DB, and the
command metaclass.  It is advisable to develop new feature sets
following a similar, re-usable, generic programming style.

7. Test-driven development is a most preferable rapid development
methodology. The sooner you may write the tests for your application.
the quicker you can start writing code that will not break it. One of
PISI's strengths is the comprehensive test suite. If you start writing
the code with some test cases, it should diminish your coding time.
