HISTORY
=======

PISI was the Pardus Linux package manager, I wrote most of it while working at TUBITAK/UEKAE during 2005-2006 as a
researcher, and it took me about half a year to write it, and another half year to revise it (80-90% of commit
numbers/size), save for build commands, and the actionsapi library, and I personally made the original 1.0 release at
Pardus, fixing 300+ bugs and wishlist issues. Then, my clueless co-workers brought in a non-verbal robotic person to the
team who did not contribute anything new to the code except for a bugfix somewhere, but only stripped down some of the new
features, mistaking this destructive act for "maintenance" (he is only a contributor, not an author). The latter releases do
not have anything new added to the code, they've only stripped down some features and commands like the search API. They've
also tried to remove my name from the AUTHORS list and from individual sources, in an attempt to hide my contributions,
pretending that PISI was written collaboratively. It was not. I wrote most of it, I was the only seasoned programmer who
worked on PISI, amazingly, it turns out that it does take some skill to design an efficient system tool; I was also one of 
the few ones who weren't overtly lazy and did not spend the entire day writing blogs about irrelevant stuff and drinking tea 
and tobacco like a state officer. The Turkish Linux Users Group award for PISI was also given to me personally, not the 
team. I left the award trophy as a gesture of kindness to promote team unity. Since I am not pleased with the later Pardus 
release branch that I find to be desecrating my poetic code, I am reviving the original development branch. I've uploaded 
the last development branch I found on my local SVN copies, out of 1.1_beta12. The next release will be 1.1. I declare the 
1.0 release and branch to be obsolete. May its bits rot in peace.

There are two very interesting generic python novelties I developed for PISI. The use of metaclasses was essential to both. 
The first one is something I call autoxml, and it uses python metaclasses to work with XML based configuration using 
Berkeley DB, but the DB  is completely abstracted. It's basically a neat nosql python XML/DB framework. The other 
interesting thing is the command framework using metaclasses, which also worked beautifully. The algorithms are also pretty 
compact. I designed and implemented some graph algorithms to deal with dependency resolution, and so forth. These algorithms 
make a pretty useful library, you can write a lot of effective package tools around the PISI framework, as we proved in the 
server scripts of Pardus.

PISI also has some features not found in any other package manager that I know of, such as the ability to work with 
hierarchical components and metadata information in a clean, non-kludgey way, and the smooth merging of binary and source 
package approaches of debian and gentoo. PISI is sort of like gentoo package tools ported to debian and debian package tools 
ported to gentoo, and rewritten in python in a better way. Admittedly, there are some missing features, the handling of 
virtual packages leaves something to be desired, I really should rewrite that part, it's the same old problem with debian 
package resolution, but unlike debian, both dpkg and apt-get layers are implemented in a single library, no silly perl 
scripts and the like. Even making everything pure python scripts was a huge contribution. Caglar's actionsapi was also quite 
nice, Caglar was very hard working, he developed most of the packages himself. Baris contributed some nice bugfixes and 
developed most of the build path, which does something a lot like gentoo. Getting both the binary and source packages work 
seamlessly was an important feature of PISI, and again, not really found in any other package manager the way it is in 
Pardus. Although more than 10 years old, I suspect, PISI remains the most compact, featureful and efficient package manager 
of all.

The development branch's goal is to remove the Pardus dependencies. My vision for PISI was beyond Pardus, I had designed it 
as a replacement for dpkg. It can easily replace dpkg/apt-get in a debian based system, or gentoo package manager in a 
gentoo based system, with some due effort, of course. The later releases will likely drop all support for Pardus in 
recognition of their failure to make a cogent OS distribution. Because of their sheer incompetence, TUBITAK later dropped 
the PISI based Pardus distribution unwittingly and replaced it with a debian based distribution, when what they really 
needed was a competent development team that could improve the, IMHO quite satisfactory, system tools. However, the heart of 
Pardus is still the PISI package manager, and naturally the other system tools such as Gurer's COMAR and Baris's YALI. Those 
three tools + PISI packages make a Pardus distro. I will not bother trying to rewrite COMAR and YALI, but I have other ideas 
that will make PISI a portable package manager, which is most of the reason I decided to write it in python. Since Pardus no 
more exists, there is no more a reason to support COMAR, it seems. COMAR would be a replacement for debconf, but its author 
didn't appreciate this goal, which means we would need a better COMAR release or a COMAR rewrite for a new Pardus distro in 
the future. We can probably make a hybrid PISI/debconf system on a debian derivative, too. The problem with debconf is the 
perl dependency, which is among the worst PL's ever designed, unlike python, which rocks. 😉

Let me know what you want to call the package manger in English, I'm considering various alternatives. Kitty, and pussy are 
among the names I'm considering. PISI means Packages Intended Successfully as Intended, but I made that up as an acronym for 
PISI which is an affectionate word for a cat in Turkish (like pussy), which was a name decided before I even designed the 
code, comar likewise is a slang for dog in Turkish. I love my PISI, of course. <3

Happy hacking! :3

Dr. Kitty, aka Eray Ozkural, exa.

2017, Istanbul, Goztepe
